ECS worker setup guide improvements (#401)
PrefectHQ/prefect-aws: docs/ecs_guide.md

## Why use ECS for flow run execution?

ECS (Elastic Container Service) tasks are a good option for executing Prefect flow runs for several reasons:

1. **Scalability**: ECS scales your infrastructure in response to demand, effectively managing Prefect flow runs. ECS automatically administers container distribution across multiple instances based on demand.
2. **Flexibility**: ECS lets you choose between AWS Fargate and Amazon EC2 for container operation. Fargate abstracts the underlying infrastructure, while EC2 has faster job start times and offers additional control over instance management and configuration.
3. **AWS Integration**: Easily connect with other AWS services, such as AWS IAM and CloudWatch.
4. **Containerization**: ECS supports Docker containers and offers managed execution. Containerization encourages reproducible deployments.

> ## ECS Flow run execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## ECS flow run execution
```

Prefect enables remote flow execution via [workers](https://docs.prefect.io/concepts/work-pools/#worker-overview) and [work pools](https://docs.prefect.io/concepts/work-pools/#work-pool-overview). To learn more about these concepts please see our [deployment tutorial](https://docs.prefect.io/tutorial/deployments/).

For details on how workers and work pools are implemented for ECS, see the diagram below:

> #### Architecture Diagram

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Architecture diagram
```

    end
  end

  subgraph github["ECR"]
    flow_code{{"Flow code"}}
  end
  flow_code --> |pulls| ecs_task
  prefect_worker -->|polls| workqueue
  prefect_workpool -->|configures| fr_task_definition
```

> ### ECS in Prefect Terms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### ECS in Prefect terms
```

### 1. Create a trust policy

The trust policy will specify that the ECS service containing the Prefect worker will be able to assume the role required for calling other AWS services.
os
Save this policy to a file, such as `ecs-trust-policy.json`:

```json

    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "Service": "ecs-tasks.amazonaws.com"
                },
                "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
            }
        ]
    }
```

### 2. Create the IAM roles

Use the `aws iam create-role` command to create the roles that you will be using. The `ecsTaskExecutionRole` will be used by the worker to start ECS tasks.

```bash
    aws iam create-role \
    --role-name ecsTaskExecutionRole \
    --assume-role-policy-document file://ecs-trust-policy.json
```

!!! tip

>     Depending on the requirements of your flows, it is advised to create a [second role for your ECS tasks](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-iam-roles.html). This role will contain the permissions required by the ECS tasks in which your flows will run. For example, if your workflow loads data into an S3 bucket, you would need a role with additional permissions specific to accessing S3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Depending on the requirements of your flows, it is advised to create a [second role for your ECS tasks](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-iam-roles.html). This role will contain the permissions required by the ECS tasks in which your flows will run. For example, if your workflow loads data into an S3 bucket, you need a role with additional permissions to access S3.
```

        "requiresCompatibilities": [
            "FARGATE"
        ],
        "cpu": "512",
        "memory": "1024",
        "executionRoleArn": "<ecs-task-role-arn>",
        "taskRoleArn": "<ecs-task-role-arn>",
        "containerDefinitions": [
            {
                "name": "prefect-worker",
                "image": "prefecthq/prefect:2-latest",
                "cpu": 512,
                "memory": 1024,
                "essential": true,
                "command": [
                    "/bin/sh",
                    "-c",
                    "pip install prefect-aws && prefect worker start --pool my-ecs-pool --type ecs"
                ],
                "environment": [
                    {
                        "name": "PREFECT_API_URL",
                        "value": "<prefect-api-url>"
                    },
                    {
                        "name": "PREFECT_API_KEY",
                        "value": "<prefect-api-key>"
                    }
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
```

- Use `prefect config view` to view the `PREFECT_API_URL` for your current Prefect profile. Use this to replace `<prefect-api-url>`.

> - For the `PREFECT_API_KEY`, individuals on the pro tier can create a [service account](https://docs.prefect.io/latest/cloud/users/service-accounts/) for the worker. If on a personal tier, you can pass a user’s API key.

Reviewer: It's probably good to say up front, at the start of the guide, that this guide can be followed whether you're using Prefect Cloud or a self-hosted Prefect server instance. In a few places where you need Prefect Cloud settings we show them.

```

 !!! tip
    Depending on the requirements of your task, it is advised to create a [second role for your tasks](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-iam-roles.html). This will contain permissions required while running the task. For example if, your workflow loaded data into an S3 bucket, you would need  Because our sample flow doesn't interact with AWS, you don't have to.
### 3. Attach the policy to the role
For this guide the ECS worker will require the permissions to pull images from ECR and publish logs to CloudWatch. Amazon has a managed policy named `AmazonECSTaskExecutionRolePolicy` that grants the permissions necessary for ECS tasks. [See here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task_execution_IAM_role.html) for other common execution role permissions. Attach this policy to your task execution role:

```bash

    aws iam attach-role-policy \
    --role-name ecsTaskExecutionRole \
    --policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/service-role/AmazonECSTaskExecutionRolePolicy
```

Remember to replace the `--role-name` and `--policy-arn` with the actual role name and policy Amazon Resource Name (ARN) you want to use.

> ### Step 3: Creating ECS worker service

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Step 3: Creating an ECS worker service
```

        "requiresCompatibilities": [
            "FARGATE"
        ],
        "cpu": "512",
        "memory": "1024",
        "executionRoleArn": "<ecs-task-role-arn>",
        "taskRoleArn": "<ecs-task-role-arn>",
        "containerDefinitions": [
            {
                "name": "prefect-worker",
                "image": "prefecthq/prefect:2-latest",
                "cpu": 512,
                "memory": 1024,
                "essential": true,
                "command": [
                    "/bin/sh",
                    "-c",
                    "pip install prefect-aws && prefect worker start --pool my-ecs-pool --type ecs"
                ],
                "environment": [
                    {
                        "name": "PREFECT_API_URL",
                        "value": "<prefect-api-url>"
                    },
                    {
                        "name": "PREFECT_API_KEY",
                        "value": "<prefect-api-key>"
                    }
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
```

- Use `prefect config view` to view the `PREFECT_API_URL` for your current Prefect profile. Use this to replace `<prefect-api-url>`.

> - For the `PREFECT_API_KEY`, individuals on the organization tier can create a [service account](https://docs.prefect.io/latest/cloud/users/service-accounts/) for the worker. If on a personal tier, you can pass a user’s API key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- For the `PREFECT_API_KEY`, individuals on the pro tier can create a [service account](https://docs.prefect.io/latest/cloud/users/service-accounts/) for the worker. If on a personal tier, you can pass a user’s API key.
```

!!! tip
    If you prefer infrastructure as code check out this [Terraform module](https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect-recipes/tree/main/devops/infrastructure-as-code/aws/tf-prefect2-ecs-worker) to provision an ECS cluster with a worker.

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have:

- An AWS account with permissions to create ECS services and IAM roles.
- The AWS CLI installed on your local machine. You can [download it from the AWS website](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html).
- An [ECS Cluster](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/clusters.html) to host both the worker and the flow runs it submits. This guide use the default cluster. To create your own follow [this guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/userguide/create_cluster.html).
- A [VPC](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/what-is-amazon-vpc.html) configured for your ECS tasks. This guide uses the default VPC.

> ### Step 1: Set Up an ECS work pool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Set up an ECS work pool
```

Before setting up the worker, create a simple [work pool](https://docs.prefect.io/latest/concepts/work-pools/#work-pool-configuration) of type ECS for the worker to pull work from.

Create a work pool from the CLI:

```bash
prefect work-pool create --type ecs my-ecs-pool
```

Or from Prefect UI:
![WorkPool](img/Workpool_UI.png)

!!!
    Because this guide uses fargate as the capacity provider and the default VPC and ECS cluster, no further configuration is needed.

Next, set up a Prefect ECS worker that will discover and pull work from this work pool.

### Step 2: Start a Prefect worker in your ECS cluster

> First start by creating the [IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_create_for-custom.html#roles-creatingrole-custom-trust-policy-console) required in order for your worker and flows to run. The sample flow in this guide is very simple and therefore you will only be creating one role, `taskExecutionRole`.  To create a IAM role for the ECS task using the AWS CLI, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First start by creating the [IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_create_for-custom.html#roles-creatingrole-custom-trust-policy-console) required in order for your worker and flows to run. The sample flow in this guide doesn't interact with many other AWS services, so you will create only one role, `taskExecutionRole`.  To create an IAM role for the ECS task using the AWS CLI, follow these steps:
```

1. **Create a trust policy**

>     The trust policy will specify that the ECS service containing the prefect worker will be able to assume the role required for calling other AWS services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The trust policy will specify that the ECS service containing the Prefect worker will be able to assume the role required for calling other AWS services.
```

    }
    ```

2. **Create the IAM roles**

    Use the `aws iam create-role` command to create the roles that you will be using. The `ecsTaskExecutionRole` will be used by the worker to talk to make AWS API calls on your behalf when starting ecs tasks.

    ```bash

    aws iam create-role \
    --role-name ecsTaskExecutionRole \
    --assume-role-policy-document file://ecs-trust-policy.json
    ```

 !!! tip

>     Depending on the requirements of your task, it is advised to create a [second role for your tasks](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-iam-roles.html). This will contain permissions required while running the task. Because our sample flow doesn't interact with AWS you don't have to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Depending on the requirements of your task, it is advised to create a [second role for your tasks](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-iam-roles.html). This role will contain permissions required while running the task. Because our sample flow doesn't interact with AWS we don't need a second role.
```

Reviewer: Maybe add something about this being needed when interacting with other AWS services that require other permissions.

```bash
aws ecs create-service \
    --service-name prefect-worker-service \
    --cluster <ecs-cluster> \
    --task-definition <task-definition-arn> \
    --launch-type FARGATE \
    --desired-count 1 \
    --network-configuration "awsvpcConfiguration={subnets=[<subnet-ids>],securityGroups=[<your-security-group-ids>],assignPublicIp='ENABLED'}"
```

- Replace `<ecs-cluster>` with the name of your ECS cluster.
- Replace `<task-definition-arn>` with the ARN of the task definition you just registered.
- Replace `<subnet-ids>` with a comma-separated list of your VPC subnet IDs. Ensure that these subnets are aligned with the vpc specified on the work pool in step 1. You can view subnet ids with the following command:
    `aws ec2 describe-subnets --filter Name=<vpc-id>`
- Replace `<security-group-ids>` with a comma-separated list of your VPC security group IDs.

!!! tip "Sanity check"

>     The work pool page in the Prefect UI allows you to check the health of your workers - make sure your new worker is live! Note that it can take a few minutes for an ECS service to come online.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The work pool page in the Prefect UI allows you to check the health of your workers - make sure your new worker is live! Note that it can take a few minutes for an ECS service to come online.
    
    If your worker does not come online and you are using the command from this guide, you may not be using the default VPC. For connectivity issues, check your VPC's configuration and refer to the [ECS outbound networking guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/bestpracticesguide/networking-outbound.html).
```

## Step 4: Pick up a flow run with your new worker

> ### 1. Write a simple test flow in a repo of your choice

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 1. Write a simple test flow
```

    ```bash
    aws ecs create-service \
        --service-name prefect-worker-service \
        --cluster <ecs-cluster> \
        --task-definition <task-definition-arn> \
        --launch-type FARGATE \
        --desired-count 1 \
        --network-configuration "awsvpcConfiguration={subnets=[<subnet-ids>],securityGroups=[<your-security-group-ids>],assignPublicIp='ENABLED'}"
    ```

    - Replace `<ecs-cluster>` with the name of your ECS cluster.
    - Replace `<task-definition-arn>` with the ARN of the task definition you just registered.
    - Replace `<subnet-ids>` with a comma-separated list of your VPC subnet IDs. Ensure that these subnets are aligned with the vpc specified on the work pool in step 1. You can view subnet ids with the following command: 
    `aws ec2 describe-subnets --filter Name=<vpc-id>`
    - Replace `<security-group-ids>` with a comma-separated list of your VPC security group IDs.

    !!! tip "Sanity check"

>         The work pool page in the Prefect UI allows you to check the health of your workers - make sure your new worker is live! Although keep in mind it can take ECS a few minuter for a service to go online.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The work pool page in the Prefect UI allows you to check the health of your workers - make sure your new worker is live! Note that it can take a few minutes for an ECS service to come online.
```

```yaml
name: ecs-worker-guide
# this is pre-populated by running prefect init
prefect-version: 2.14.20 

# build section allows you to manage and build docker images
build:
- prefect_docker.deployments.steps.build_docker_image:
    id: build_image
    requires: prefect-docker>=0.3.1
    image_name: <my-ecr-repo>
    tag: latest
    dockerfile: auto

# push section allows you to manage if and how this project is uploaded to remote locations
push:
- prefect_docker.deployments.steps.push_docker_image:
    requires: prefect-docker>=0.3.1
    image_name: '{{ build_image.image_name }}'
    tag: '{{ build_image.tag }}'

 # the deployments section allows you to provide configuration for deploying flows
deployments:
- name: my_ecs_deployment
    version:
    tags: []
    description:
    entrypoint: flow.py:my_flow
    parameters: {}
    work_pool:
        name: ecs-dev-pool
        work_queue_name:
        job_variables:
        image: '{{ build_image.image }}'
    schedules: []
pull:
    - prefect.deployments.steps.set_working_directory:
        directory: /opt/prefect/ecs-worker-guide

```

> ### 4. [Deploy](https://docs.prefect.io/tutorial/deployments/#create-a-deployment) the flow to the server, specifying the ECS work pool when prompted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. [Deploy](https://docs.prefect.io/tutorial/deployments/#create-a-deployment) the flow to Prefect Cloud or your self-hosted server instance, specifying the ECS work pool when prompted
```

    my_flow()
```

> ### 2. This guide uses ECR to store you code data. Create a repo with the following command

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 2. Create an ECR repository
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the following AWS CLI command to create an ECR repository. The name you choose for your repository will be reused in the next step when defining your Prefect deployment.

```bash
```

aws ecr create-repository \
--repository-name <my-ecr-repo> \
--region <region>
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

### 3. Create a `prefect.yaml`

```

To have Prefect build your image when deploying your flow create a `prefect.yaml` file with the following specification:

```yaml
name: ecs-worker-guide
# this is pre-populated by running prefect init
prefect-version: 2.14.20 

# build section allows you to manage and build docker images
build:
- prefect_docker.deployments.steps.build_docker_image:
    id: build_image
    requires: prefect-docker>=0.3.1
    image_name: <my-ecr-repo>
    tag: latest
    dockerfile: auto

# push section allows you to manage if and how this project is uploaded to remote locations
push:
- prefect_docker.deployments.steps.push_docker_image:
    requires: prefect-docker>=0.3.1
    image_name: '{{ build_image.image_name }}'
    tag: '{{ build_image.tag }}'

 # the deployments section allows you to provide configuration for deploying flows
deployments:
- name: my_ecs_deployment
version:
tags: []
description:
entrypoint: flow.py:my_flow
parameters: {}
work_pool:
    name: ecs-dev-pool
    work_queue_name:
    job_variables:
    image: '{{ build_image.image }}'
schedules: []
pull:
- prefect.deployments.steps.set_working_directory:

>     directory: /opt/prefect/ecs-worker-guide

Reviewer 3: Can the indentation be a little cleaner throughout this deployment definition?

```

> ### 2. [Deploy](https://docs.prefect.io/tutorial/deployments/#create-a-deployment) the flow to the server, specifying the ECS work pool when prompted

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 4. [Deploy](https://docs.prefect.io/tutorial/deployments/#create-a-deployment) the flow
```

```bash
prefect deploy my_flow.py:my_ecs_deployment
```

> ### 3. Find the deployment in the UI and click the **Quick Run** button!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 5. Find the deployment in the UI and click the **Quick Run** button!
```
Maybe also add a screenshot here if we're mentioning a specific button in the UI?

    id: build_image
    requires: prefect-docker>=0.3.1
    image_name: <my-ecr-repo>
    tag: latest
    dockerfile: auto

# push section allows you to manage if and how this project is uploaded to remote locations
push:
- prefect_docker.deployments.steps.push_docker_image:
    requires: prefect-docker>=0.3.1
    image_name: '{{ build_image.image_name }}'
    tag: '{{ build_image.tag }}'

 # the deployments section allows you to provide configuration for deploying flows
deployments:
- name: my_ecs_deployment
    version:
    tags: []
    description:
    entrypoint: flow.py:my_flow
    parameters: {}
    work_pool:
        name: ecs-dev-pool
        work_queue_name:
        job_variables:
        image: '{{ build_image.image }}'
    schedules: []
pull:
    - prefect.deployments.steps.set_working_directory:
        directory: /opt/prefect/ecs-worker-guide

```

### 4. [Deploy](https://docs.prefect.io/tutorial/deployments/#create-a-deployment) the flow to the Prefect Cloud or your self-managed server instance, specifying the ECS work pool when prompted

```bash
prefect deploy my_flow.py:my_ecs_deployment
```

### 5. Find the deployment in the UI and click the **Quick Run** button!

> ## Optional Next Steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Optional next steps
```

        my_flow()
    ```

2. This guide uses ECR to store you code data. Create a repo with the following command:

    ```bash
    aws ecr create-repository \
    --repository-name <my-ecr-repo> \
    --region <region>
    ```

>     To have prefect build your image when deploying your flow create `prefect.yaml` with the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To have Prefect build your image when deploying your flow create a `prefect.yaml` file with the following specification:
```

    ```yaml
    name: ecs-worker-guide

>     prefect-version: 2.14.20

Reviewer: Do we want to bump this version or add a comment?

    # build section allows you to manage and build docker images
    build:
    - prefect_docker.deployments.steps.build_docker_image:
        id: build_image
        requires: prefect-docker>=0.3.1
        image_name: <my-ecr-repo>
        tag: latest
        dockerfile: auto

    # push section allows you to manage if and how this project is uploaded to remote locations
    push:
    - prefect_docker.deployments.steps.push_docker_image:
        requires: prefect-docker>=0.3.1
        image_name: '{{ build_image.image_name }}'
        tag: '{{ build_image.tag }}'

    # the deployments section allows you to provide configuration for deploying flows
    deployments:
    - name: my_ecs_deployment
    version:
    tags: []
    description:
    entrypoint: flow.py:my_flow
    parameters: {}
    work_pool:
        name: ecs-dev-pool
        work_queue_name:
        job_variables:
        image: '{{ build_image.image }}'
    schedules: []
    pull:
    - prefect.deployments.steps.set_working_directory:
        directory: /opt/prefect/ecs-worker-guide

    ```

> 2. [Deploy](https://docs.prefect.io/2.11.0/tutorial/deployments/#create-a-deployment) the flow to the server, specifying the ECS work pool when prompted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Deploy](https://docs.prefect.io/tutorial/deployments/#create-a-deployment) the flow to the server, specifying the ECS work pool when prompted.
```
